First, to address this: https://github.com/LiquidZulu/youtube-scripts/raw/main/scripts/Why%20Drunk%20Driving%20Should%20Not%20Be%20a%20Crime/criticisms-and-counters/27-04-2021--not-fox--image0.jpg

I am in no way implying that the validity of your argument is contingent on your spelling or grammar. It just personally irks me and I have a bit of ocd. It's an impulse not a strategy to make you look bad.

Lol also be happy I am only commenting on spelling but not pointing out the grammar. (This was meant in a lighthearted teasing way not a serious way)

> So, absolutely, one may impose any restrictions they wish on roads they own, I see now way in which that isn’t implied by my adversion to enforcing what one may do with their property.

So given that federal and state governments own 98% of roads and highways, it is completely consistent with libertarianism that they enforce rules for using them.

> As for point (2), when I shoot a person it is not the use of my property that is a problem, it’s my trespassing of a bullet onto the property of another, this is entirely consistent within libertarianism.

But it is both the trespassing of a bullet and the use of property that is the problem because the use of property has a direct causal effect on the violation of someone's property. 

If I were to stab someone, it would be ridiculous to state that it's not me stabbing them that is the problem it's the knife slicing their organs open. In both the shooting scenario and the stabbing scenario it both the use of the property and the trespassing of someone's property.

Additionally, the point of the shooting example was to state that there are significantly more considerations than "whether it was unjust to enforce what a person may do with their own property on the basis of an arbitrary chemical signal"

Also you didn't address the reckless endangerment example. Are you for or against criminalizing reckless endangerment?

> How isn’t it arbitrary?

Arbitrary is primarily defined as "based on random choice or personal whim, rather than any reason or system." (https://www.lexico.com/en/definition/arbitrary).

There is significant reason to consider BAC. It is a very good heuristic for impairment of function which, if your goal is to reduce the deaths and provide maximal utility to society, one ought regulate when someone has control of dangerous machinery like cars. It is neither based on random choice nor personal whim; It has very good reasons to support it. 

Also to preempt a possible "I was referring to the characterization of rulers instead of motivation" argument, this is the only definition that makes sense in this context; The other definition solely typifies reigns not chemical signals. And, even if it were intended to delineate the government, it would be incorrect because the government is not enacting unrestrained power in this case.  

> Safety and order are synonymous in the same way that chaos and threat are.

What a nazi would consider orderly is extremely different from what anyone in a liberal democracy would consider safe or free. Additionally safety and freedom are different things although safety contributes to freedom.

Also, one criticism I forgot to say because it was somewhat minor: The juxtaposition and parallelization of statements from a nazi and someone from modern society demonstrates nothing. It only serves to frame the other side negatively. Criminalizing drunk driving and racial purges are incomparable and being an example of Godwin's law won't change that.

> I refer fox to here and here.

I address those later on in my response

> So criminalising drunk driving does nothing then, as you can already target those acts that you are against directly, I agree entirely.

They are targeted through the criminalization of drunk driving. 

If you had included what I had stated before "It is the reckless endangerment of life. At even a 0.05 BAC your odds of having an accident are at least six times greater." then it would have been clear what I was referring to. 

This also would have answered your previous question of "How isn’t it arbitrary?"

> Ok, so criminalise the recklessness, why must the composition of ones blood play into the calculus?

Because driving while intoxicated is reckless. By drinking and then driving you are directly and significantly increasing the probability that you endanger someone else's life. 

> The idea of “public” property is tyrannical and nonsensical, to own something is to have total, dictatorial control over how that thing is used

How is it less tyrannical to administrate property through democracy instead of dictatorial control? Would you say that the government has total dictatorial control over property? 

> it isn’t possible to share this control between multiple people.

Why not? If it isn't then who owns what we would call public property? What are shareholders? What are worker coops?

> German jews actively engaged in being jewish despite knowing that it was a crime, I dont see how the knowledge that one is engaging in illegal action changes whether that action ought to be illegal.

If that is true then what was the point of this paragraph? 

> To take this further, how is the supposed criminal to know whether they are committing this crime? They can perform informal calculations in their head based on their mass and how many units of alcohol they have consumed, but until a police officer suspects that they are guilty and administers their fallable test you are in the state of performing a Schrödinger’s crime — that is that you do not know if you are doing what is deemed illegal.

But ignoring that the example of german jews is not analogous because I never stated that legality ought solely be contingent knowledge of an action and decision of the rulers. If the law fundamentally ought not exist then knowledge of whether one is breaking said law has no effect on whether it should have been enacted. 

Because we ought not criminalize practicing judaism in the first place, it doesn't matter whether people know it's illegal or not.

Furthermore, given that the point of the criminal justice system is to disincentivize criminal action and rehabilitate those who actively engaged in illegal activity, there would be no point in criminalizing things that people are unaware of. This is why we have the idea of mens rea or guilty mind in the US criminal justice system which is necessary for criminal conviction.

> Again I refer fox to this argument later in the very document he is criticising where I address this.

Again I refer you to my response to that argument in the very criticism that you are responding to

> The state doesnt legitimately own the roads, I do wish I had been more explicit in this point in the original document.

Who does? What makes ownership legitimate? Could there be a hypothetical world in which an actor who is indistinguishable from the state passes a drunk driving law?

> No, criminalise is correct, don’t see why is particularly matters, but if you are to pedantically search for typos at least be correct about it.

I apologize I was operating under american english spelling not UK english spelling. Also I don't search for typos they pop out at me when reading and the editor that I use automatically detects them.

> And what if you dont feel intoxicated? In Scotland at least, you are likely to be over the limit the morning after drinks, you may say this limit is too low but how can you tell what “too low” is?

I don't know what the level for scotland is so I can't comment on whether they should raise it or not, but I am not defending all drunk driving laws. I would like the criteria to be rationally set based on empirical measurement. A too low limit is one where raising it has a negligible effect on lives lost (which would be determined through both study of real world test trials and measurement of impairment while driving). If you can raise the criteria without killing people you ought do that imo.

> Ok so for (1) I must, yet again, point fox to this argument.

And I must, yet again, note that I did respond to that argument. I

> Which can be solved through voluntary licensing and insurance.

How specifically would you address this. A problem off the top of my head is that relying on insurance can't be enough given that insurance coverage is that in many states a significant portion of people do not have insurance despite the fact that one can be fined for not having car insurance. However I do want to hear your system first before commenting on it.

> Having consumed how recently? A day? A week? A month?

Breathalyzers can detect alcohol (below legal limit iirc) about a day after so the legal time frame would be shorter than that. 

It is possible for people to still be impaired in the morning and the same arguments still apply.

> This would all be very damming if my argument relied on this rather than it being an aside that I mention at the end of the section.

Well I'm glad that we agree. I know you don't consider it an important point given that you questioned "how the knowledge that one is engaging in illegal action changes whether that action ought to be illegal."

> So should we ban being sore and driving? What about driving tired? Should we set up checkpoints to test random peoples reaction times to see if they are fit to drive? All these would be equally permissible by this line of reasoning

No given that you've failed to justify how criminalizing any of these would induce a comparable benefit to drunk driving. You have left out a significant portion of my arguments including the place where I answer this exact question

> 2) Can you demonstrate that they would be sufficiently beneficial? If so yes but I highly doubt that the state being able to test your mood and make decisions on that would be a net positive. You're free to enlighten me otherwise.

Furthermore you ignored the fact that even if it were justifiable, all that would imply is that we ought criminalize driving tired not that we oughtn't criminalize driving drunk. Critiquing inconsistent application of a principle does not critique that principle. 

Also having skimmed google, there could be good reason to prevent fatigued drivers from driving. In NJ there's maggie's law which addresses driving without sleep. 

and as I asked before: Why not? (Ik why I don't think so but why don't you think we should do it)

> how about instead we look for people who are literally, visibly, driving dangerously? 

We do. The reason that that is not sufficient is that intoxication is an indication of future reckless driving even if current the driving isn't reckless and we can't always perfectly observe every car all the time. Some heuristics are necessary. Additionally drunk driving laws will disincentivize people from driving drunk in the first place. Many intoxicated people don't feel their own lack of coordination and/or have lowered inhibitions and a hard line would leave less room for someone to mis-judge their actions.

It all comes down to what empirically has the greatest effect is empirically. We can't a priori the effect phenomena without the help of empirical data.

> Or, better yet, let the market decide rather than asking the opinion of unqualified bureaucrats?

Again I need to hear your specific proposal but:

1) Do you have evidence that we can't have qualified people make regulations? I have many problems with the government today but that doesn't mean that there can't be benefits of it or that we can't make it better. 

2) Personal gain is maximized in real world markets instead of social good, markets are imperfect and inconsistent, and individual agents can't be directed towards a specific goal without some form of command. As I said before though I can't critique a system that I don't know.

> countreparts

Ok that can't be right but I will trust that you have a greater grasp of UK english than I do. 

> Why not, they are of higher risk than their white countreparts, the argument that I was responding to was that the probability is higher, it made no mention of degree. 

So you are yet again ignoring my argument and explicit statements here then.

Either:

a. The hypothetical argument that you responded to includes a mention of degree and your reductio on that argument is incorrect. 

or

b. The hypothetical argument that you responded to does not include a mention of degree and I would then criticize the misrepresentation of the opposing side and conflation of my argument and the hypothetical argument.

You already stated that it's not a, so the only possibility is that you ignored how I specifically mentioned degree and responded to a misrepresentation of my argument as if it debunked my true argument. 

> Therefore this does nothing to show my reductio ad absurdum to be invalid.

Regardless of wether the reductio is valid on a specific hypothetical, it not analogous to an argument that considers magnitude. 

> Ok, lets make an adjustment to the reductio ad absurdum; there is a negative correlation between religiosity and crime,[fn:1]

This falls victim to the same problems that I stated:

For your first citation, "If You Love Me, Keep My Commandments’: A Meta-Analysis of the Effect of Religion on Crime," in the results section they "found that religion has a ... effect on crime of about r = -0.12." 

The variance in crime explained by religiosity is about 1%. This is extremely small and, similarly to the example of black people, does not come close in magnitude to intoxicated driving.

> so should we therefore punish atheists? 
 
Ignoring the tiny magnitude of the effect of religion on crime, the main point of the criticism to which you are responding still stands and applies to this as well. 

The effects of criminalizing religious or nonreligious belief is so harmful to society to the point that it is codified into the constitution via the first amendment. One of the main reasons that america was created was on the basis of religious freedom. 

A law that criminalizes atheism or certain religions is significantly more tyrannical than criminalizing based on whether you drink before you drive.

 
> To take this further, a 2012 study has suggested that a belief in hell reduces crime,[fn:2] and I needent go into the obvious risks associated with Wahabbism.

I'm glad that you agree with that the net effects of forcing a religious belief on people is not worth the potential miniscule decrease in crime. Thank you, I couldn't have said it better myself.

Although our consensus and by extension my point persists regardless of the validity of the study, the results of the study are suspect given all of the problems with cross sectional country level data, the problems with ecological inference, no discussion of disparate reporting, no discussion of age, no discussion, significant differences in the time of data collection, etc. I can go more into depth if you want but I don't think that it's relevant to the issue at hand.

> All of these religious sects are chosen by people, making this of the same form as those who choose to drink and drive.

1) Religious belief and intoxicated driving are very different. Religious belief is not something that someone can directly chose. Most can not flip a switch and convince themselves of a specific god or hell as easily as they can drink.

2) My criteria are not solely whether someone chooses even though that does affect things. As I said above criminalizing religion is much more tyrannical and negative than drunk driving

> Why on earth must utility be taken into account?

Because I care about doing what's best for society and people's health and safety are more important than property. 

I am aware that you would rather people have cancer than property rights being violated but I do not share that same indifference toward human wellbeing.

Why do you value property rights over people? Why would you be willing to let people die so others can drive drunk?

> Or, we can let the market solve it for us, how does this show my logic to be faulty? I thought thats what these 4 points were doing.

I was demonstrating a distinction between drunk driving and poverty. We already have the tools to directly eliminate poverty. I need to hear the specifics of your proposed system but I most likely disagree that your solution would address the problem.

> How do you measure the “impact on people/society?”

Empirical observation most likely through studies on implementing the polices.

> Well then you have a very strange definition of free-society.

Maximizing what people realistically can do is a strange definition of freedom? Depriving people of the resources and safe environment to do what they desire reduces what they can do and I would consider that an odd definition of freedom. 

> Again, criminalise is correct, and as I said above, read just a little bit further down and you will see that I have already addressed this.

Read just a little bit further down and you will see that I have already addressed your point. 

> Did you forget the title of the section you are responding to? It’s “The Probability of an Accident Increases,” I am responding to that argument, which is a probabilistic argument.

No I did not forget. The problem is, as I stated above, your hypothetical is not representative of real arguments that involve the probability.

> I dont know how I can make that clearer, it’s on fox to bother reading the rest of the counterarguments if he wants to criticise them.

I did. You are the one who repeatedly ignores my points, and didn't bother reading the rest of my counterargument before commenting.

> So fox wants the minority report? 

When did I say that?

> What a shitty counter lmao.

You made a claim without substantiating it. Why ought governments not consider what one is probable to do. The entire idea of the criminal justice system is to deter crime (i.e. making non-offenders less probable to offend), and reform people who will probably re-offend. We don't just punish people because we feel like it.

> This is literally in the context of what ought to happen in a free-society, I know fox has a weird definition of free but I didnt think he would come out and say that you can be free in the minority report universe.

Again I never said that.

> Im sorry, but was the title of that section not “Drunk Driving Laws Discourage Drunk Driving?” I must have imagined that I was responding to a deterrence-based legal system there, my mistake, I really should split the argument up into sections with headers to make it clear what I am responding to.

The problem with your sections is that you assume each argument is orthogonal to each other and any one of them can stand alone. That is patently false. The hypothetical would be valid if the argument was solely about deterrence instead of an argument that considered deterrence in the context of societal wellbeing. 

> I KNOW, I AGREE, FUCKING HELL, THE DETERRENCE ARGUMENT WAS ONE I WAS PRESENTED WITH YOU TOOL.

see above

> Gee wiz, if only I was responding to the idea of a deterrence-based justice system then I wouldn’t fall foul of 2. Thank god not fox read between the lines and saw that section as my total rebuttal of utilitarianism.

see above. I also never said that you were refuting utilitarianism; I said that your argument had the same structure of an argument posing as a refutation to utilitarianism. 

> Im just gonna leave mr fox with this, I do hope he gets around to reading it at some point, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/British_English

Yes I checked after you asserted that criminalise was correct the first time. 

> What legal utility? 

Multiple severities of offense. Wet and reckless is often for borderline illegal levels of alcohol whereas a dui is generally further above

> Seems the only extra people who would be arrested are those who drive perfectly safely but had their breath tested at a checkpoint, why must they be punished? 

1) That's not the distinction

2) We can't be sure that they were or will be driving perfectly safely. We only have so much observation at one time. Intoxication is a really good heuristic

> And it’s not an “imagined” inconsistency, it is very much real, unless fox is able to point out exactly what part of my criticism doesn’t correspond to real legal codes.

Your claim was that "If it was the case that drunk driving is necessarily paramount to reckless behaviour then you would not need to criminalise being drunk separately from driving dangerously" however this is false because there multiple severities of reckless behavior and drunk driving. Wet and reckless is a less severe charge while a DUI is a more severe charge.

> Hey bud, what is that floating “this” doing at the end there? That doesn’t look particularly gramatically correct.

* grammatically

Also yeah. I use a tts and stt because it's a lot faster and must have missed this in my scan through.

> Ah yes I forgot that the government mandates that all buildings must have metal detectors, and that this isn’t a result of voluntary risk assessment as I have so blatantly called for.

Doesn't respond to the central argument. Metal detectors exist because of the same reason traffic stops exist: just because someone is not currently acting harmful doesn't mean they won't in the future. 

> it’s not imagined, and do you think the government should criminalise driving with a bad mood?

Why would I think that? Also even assuming it's inconsistent the rest of my first point still stands. 

> Can you demonstrate that drunk driving laws are sufficiently beneficial?

Yes. This is a literature review on the effectiveness of a 0.05 BAC limit:

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4448946/

This is a U.S. Department of Transportation report on driving with alcohol laws:

https://one.nhtsa.gov/people/injury/research/pub/alcohol-laws/08history/1_introduction.htm

This is a study that tests the specific effects of lowering from 0.10 to 0.8 BAC

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30888888/

Now I will repeat my question:

Can you demonstrate that they would be sufficiently beneficial? If so yes but I highly doubt that the state being able to test your mood and make decisions on that would be a net positive. You’re free to enlighten me otherwise.

> Because probabilities should be left up to voluntary insurance and licensing

Again it's not solely probabilities that are being criminalized. It's the act of driving while in a specific state. 

> Under your commiequentialism why shouldnt we criminalise driving whilst grumpy?

Lmao commiequentialism. I'm gonna take that.

And as I stated before I don't believe that it will have a net positive effect. 

> NO, THATS THE FUCKING POINT. MASKS ARENT CRIMINALISED, JESUS FUCKING CHRIST.

Lol sorry I was a bit sleep deprived. 

The difference is that masks don't make you commit crimes but alcohol makes you a more dangerous driver.

> That same causal link exists with people who drink being more likely to commit crimes, ought we ban alcohol? What about caffeine?

Again, the magnitude, severity of infringement, and effectiveness are all important.

If you could justify that it would work (the prohibition was a disaster), that it wouldn't give the state way too much power, and that it would have a significant positive impact then I would probably change my mind (unless there's some other good reason not to do it). 

> I dont know how many times I will have to link to this section where I address this constant motif in fox’s criticisms.

And again I responded to your refutations. This is ridiculous given that you've already read some of the reasons I have a problem with your rebuttal there. 

> I would be interested to know if fox is fine with theft in the protection of property.

can you clarify? 

do you mean to ask if I would be fine if someone stole something to stop someone from violating their property (e.g. stealing a fence to protect your property)? If so then it depends. I don't fundamentally care about property except to the extent that it promotes human wellbeing. If someone was going to have their life ruined if they didn't steal from a megacorp who would barely notice the missing fence then sure it's justifiable. 

> That’s funny, because I have noticed a similar sign but it’s when someone decides to nitpick typos as intellectual chaff in their arguments.

When did I do that? Because all I remember is pointing out a few spelling mistakes here and there. Meanwhile you repeatedly mischaracterize my arguments, ignore them, and dishonestly frame things to obscure from the true situation. 

I only noted when it was glaring that you didn't read some of my points and that was already many times. 

> https://github.com/LiquidZulu/youtube-scripts/raw/main/scripts/Why%20Drunk%20Driving%20Should%20Not%20Be%20a%20Crime/criticisms-and-counters/27-04-2021--not-fox--image0.jpg

Ah yes ignore the actual arguments and characterize it all as me using grammar as an argument (which I never did).